Now, let’s talk today
about unity a little bit
because oftentimes when people
refer to “the others,”
they reveal their biases.
Often, they want to demonstrate distance.
On the contrary, Jesus here at John 10:16
uses the term “other sheep”
in connection with unity.
Let’s read it at John 10:16.
Jesus says here:
“And I have other sheep,
“which are not of this fold;
those too I must bring in,
“and they will listen to my voice,
and they will become one flock,
one shepherd.”
So the anointed and those with a hope
of living forever on earth are united.
Let us talk, therefore, about unity
—unity and the Memorial.
And we’d like to address
the following questions:
Why is unity so precious for us personally?
What are enemies to our unity?
And then as a third question,
How will attending the Memorial
help us to maintain our unity?
So why is unity
so precious for us personally?
I guess we all treasure
the harmony in our family
that comes from applying God’s direction.
The unity in the congregation
and Jehovah’s organization as a whole
makes us feel secure and protected.
We receive comfort and encouragement
because we feel comfortable to open up.
We do not fear that somebody
will take advantage of our vulnerable state.
In Psalm 122,
this precious unity
is described and illustrated.
Let us read this at Psalm 122:3:
“Jerusalem is built as a city
that is joined together as one.”
The houses in Jerusalem
were built close together,
forming a compact and easy-to-defend city.
This made it possible for the inhabitants
to help and protect one another.
In other words, the unity we enjoy
is the frame in which
we can flourish and succeed.
Isn’t this unity
very valuable and precious to us?
Yes, and we don’t take it for granted.
Now, unfortunately, this unity is fragile.
Why?
Because there are enemies.
What are these enemies?
That is our question number two.
Now, first of all, there is Satan.
He was able to destroy the unity
that existed between humans and Jehovah.
And he still does not want us
to succeed personally or as a group.
Since his frontal attacks
have not been successful,
he tries them from within
by employing all kinds of cunning.
For example, decades ago,
the state secret police in one country
launched heavy attacks
on different  responsible brothers
by means of fake letters.
These brothers were accused
of being drunkards,
adulterers, and traitors.
In another country, the secret police
produced falsified copies of The Watchtower
by twisting the contents
so as to serve Satan’s purpose.
Satan will continue to employ
similar tactics in the future
in an effort to destroy our precious unity.
And today, he even has modern technology
at his disposal.
Now, the second enemy is the world.
We live in Satan’s world,
and we cannot avoid
being exposed to its spirit.
It’s a spirit of independence
and a spirit that often promotes
so-called diversity that is abhorrent
—anything goes.
And tolerance has been redefined.
The new tolerance means
believing another person’s position
is as valid or acceptable as your own.
So it’s not enough anymore
to just acknowledge the existence
of different views,
but you have to accept
the different views themselves.
Since we live in this world,
we can easily see
that there exists the danger
that its spirit affects our precious unity.
Now, what about enemy number three?
Enemy number three is we ourselves.
How can it be that we
who treasure unity so much
endanger it at the same time?
Now, it’s because we are imperfect,
and our mistakes can lead to division.
For instance, Jehovah created us
with the wholesome inclination
to take care of ourselves.
Now, unfortunately, however,
there is this tendency within us
to go overboard with it.
And so pride and egotism
can develop and can easily disturb unity.
Now, this brings us to our final question:
How will attending this year’s Memorial
help us to maintain our precious unity?
Now, attending our Memorial
certainly demonstrates
our full support of the anointed remnant.
The unity between the two groups
was prophetically pictured
in Zechariah chapter 8.
As we read Zechariah 8:23,
please note how close these two groups are.
This is Zechariah 8:23:
“This is what Jehovah of armies says,
“‘In those days, ten men
out of all the languages of the nations
“‘will take hold, yes,
“‘they will take firm hold
of the robe of a Jew, saying:
“‘“We want to go with you,
for we have heard
that God is with you people.”’”
Taking a “firm hold of the robe”
and the desire to go together
is a clear sign of unity.
The members of the other sheep are proud
to associate with the anointed ones,
knowing that Jehovah is blessing them.
So even though in our congregation
there may not be one of the anointed ones,
we are observing the Memorial
“shoulder to shoulder” with them.
This renews our determination
not to fall prey
to any of the tactics of Satan.
That is why we feed exclusively
at Jehovah’s table.
No matter what sensational stories
are being told
or written about
or aired via social media platforms,
we fully trust and support
the Governing Body directed by Jesus.
Now, how does attending the Memorial
help us to protect
our unity against “the spirit of the world”?
Now we will focus on the ransom.
Jesus died for those who put faith in him
and live according to Jehovah’s will.
This separates us from those
who live according
to their own personal preferences.
And isn’t it true
that reflecting on Jesus’ ransom
helps us to set the right priorities?
We put our own interests
and desires in second place.
We submit to Jehovah’s will.
This is our first priority;
this is the key for maintaining our unity.
Additionally, during the Memorial,
we focus on Jehovah’s main quality of love.
Out of love, Jehovah provided
the ransom sacrifice.
Out of love, Jesus paved the way
to forgiveness of our sins.
“Love . . . is a perfect bond of union,”
according to Colossians 3:14.
Love has the power to create unity.
The unity between Jehovah and Jesus
is the greatest example,
and we want to maintain the same unity today.
Therefore, we fight selfish tendencies.
For example, we prove our love
by our generosity and practical help.
We do not spread rumors or gossip,
but we protect one another.
By doing so,
we keep the damaging effects
of our imperfect personality under control.
So in summary,
our unity is truly special and precious
and we are protected.
We all have the responsibility
to defend our unity
against the influences of Satan,
the world,
and our imperfect personalities.
Attending the Memorial
will be a special opportunity
to demonstrate full trust and support
for the anointed remnant.
We will be motivated
to continue submitting to Jehovah’s will
and imitating Jehovah’s and Jesus’ love.